#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{/accounts/gen/vis/paciorek/latex/paciorek-asa,times,graphics}
\input{/accounts/gen/vis/paciorek/latex/paciorekMacros}

\hypersetup{unicode=true, pdfusetitle,
bookmarks=true,bookmarksnumbered=false,bookmarksopen=false,
 breaklinks=false,pdfborder={0 0 1},backref=false,colorlinks=true,}
%\renewcommand{\baselinestretch}{1.5}

%\renewcommand{\baselinestretch}{1.5}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\begin_modules
knitr
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 0
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Stat243: Final group project
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Due Friday Dec.
 17, 5 pm
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The project will be done in groups of three, with students assigned randomly.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A few comments.
 First, the project, when split amongst the group members, is not intended
 to be a huge undertaking.
 The goals of the project are to give you experience in working collaboratively
 and developing a well-designed, well-tested piece of software.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The project will be graded as a letter grade and will count for about as
 much as two problem sets in your final grade.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Please use standard citation practices to cite any papers/online reasources/peop
le whose ideas you make use of.
 Please do not consult with class members who are not in your group.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Problem
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Your task is to make an R package to implement a genetic algorithm for variable
 selection in regression problems, including both linear regression and
 GLMs.
 Some details on genetic algorithms are available in Section 3.4 of the Givens
 and Hoeting book on Computational Statistics - see the 
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "electronic book available through UC Library search"
target "https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/book/10.1002/9781118555552"
literal "false"

\end_inset

, or the PDF of Chapter 3 in the 
\emph on
project
\emph default
 directory of the class GitHub repo.
 You should also be able to find plenty of other information about genetic
 algorithms online.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Your solution should allow the user to provide reasonable inputs, in terms
 of specifying a dataset and the type of regression.
 Much of this is information you should just be able to pass along to 
\emph on
lm()
\emph default
 or 
\emph on
glm()
\emph default
.
 By default you should just use AIC as your objective criterion but allow
 users to provide their own objective function.
 Similarly you can use the genetic operators described in Givens and Hoeting
 for variable selection, but ideally your code should be general enough
 that a user could provide additional operators.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Your solution should involve modular code, with functions or OOP methods
 that implement discrete tasks.
 You should have an overall design and style that is consistent across the
 components, in terms of functions vs.
 OOP methods, naming of objects, etc.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
In terms of efficiency, the generations are inherently sequential.
 However, you should try to vectorize as much as possible.
 If you like, you can allow for parallel processing on a single machine
 when working with the population in a given generation, in particular the
 evaluation of the fitness function, but it is not required.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Show the results of using your implementation on two or more examples.
 Have the use of the package on the examples be coded in the example section
 of the R help for your main function.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Formal testing is required, with a set of tests where results are compared
 to some known truth.
 You should have tests for the overall function and any modules that do
 anything complicated.
 For testing the overall function, since the algorithm is stochastic, you'll
 need to think carefully about how to set this up.
 You should also have unit tests for individual functions that carry out
 the individual computations that make up the algorithm.
 See more details below on how to set up the tests.
 There is more information on testing here: 
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
target "https://r-pkgs.had.co.nz/tests.html"
literal "false"

\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
You should be writing your own code for essentially everything except the
 model fitting and other standard functionality available in base R and
 the R packages such as 
\emph on
stats
\emph default
 that are provided with the standard R installation.
 If you'd like to use any other code or packages, please consult with me
 first.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Formatting requirements and additional information
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Your solution to the problem should have two parts: 
\begin_inset Separator latexpar
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
An R package named 
\emph on
GA
\emph default
, including the .tar.gz file created by 
\family typewriter
R CMD build GA
\family default
.
 I should be able to install your package by simply running 
\family typewriter
R CMD INSTALL GA_version.tar.gz
\family default
  where 
\emph on
username
\emph default
 contains the GitHub user name of the group member in whose GitHub account
 the project resides.
 A good starting place for information about R packages is Hadley Wickham's
 book: 
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
target "https://r-pkgs.had.co.nz/"
literal "false"

\end_inset

.
 You can use 
\emph on
usethis::create_package
\emph default
 to create the initial set of directories for the package.
 
\begin_inset Separator latexpar
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
The package should include:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
A primary function called 
\emph on
select
\emph default
 that carries out the variable selection, located in a file 
\emph on
select.R
\emph default
 in the 
\emph on
R
\emph default
 directory of the package, and including appropriate code comments.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Other supporting code in additional files in the 
\emph on
R
\emph default
 directory of the package, including appropriate code comments
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Formal tests, located in the package.
 You can set this up with 
\emph on
usethis::use_testthat
\emph default
; however, I don't care about the exact structure of the tests folder in
 your R package, so long as I can run 
\family typewriter
testthat::test_package('GA')
\family default
 or some standard invocation that you give me and have it run all your tests.
 Please check that you can run the tests successfully when you install your
 package outside of the context in which you are doing your development
 (e.g., on the SCF).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Help information for the main function, in the form of standard R documentation
 in a file called
\emph on
 select.Rd
\emph default
 in the 
\emph on
man
\emph default
 directory.
 You can either write 
\emph on
select.Rd
\emph default
 by hand or you can have it generated based on using the 
\emph on
roxygen2
\emph default
 package (see 
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
target "https://adv-r.had.co.nz/Documenting-functions.html"
literal "false"

\end_inset

 for an example), with the documentation included in the R code files.
 You do not need help pages for your auxiliary functions.
 
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
A PDF document describing your solution, prepared in R Markdown or \SpecialChar LaTeX
+knitr.
 The description does not need to be more than 2-4 pages, but should describe
 the approach you took in terms of functions/modularity/object-oriented
 programming, the testing that you carried out, and the results of applying
 the implementation to the example(s).
 It must include a paragraph describing the specific contributions of each
 team member and which person/people were responsible for each component
 of the work.
 
\series bold
Please submit a paper copy of the document to me - either directly to me,
 under my door, or in my mailbox.
 On your paper solution, please indicate the GitHub user name of the group
 member in whose Github repository the final version of the project resides.

\series default
 
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
You should start the process by mapping out the modular components you need
 to write and how they will fit together, as well as what the primary function
 will do.
 After one person writes a component, another person on the team should
 test it and, with the original coder, improve it.
 You could also consider using pair programming for some of your development.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
You should use Git and GitHub to manage your collaboration, with branching
 as needed and regular commits.
 Please have the project be a repository named (exactly) 
\emph on
GA
\emph default
 within the github.com account of one of the project members.
 Please make the repository private and share it with me (user 'paciorek'
 on GitHub.com).
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
